---
enabled: true
title: Education Page Content

---
## Courses

In consultation with stakeholders, the project team will develop two team-taught online courses at the four universities, one undergraduate course and one graduate course, based on the project’s methods and findings. The undergraduate course will be a MOOC (massive open online course) aimed at reaching a large and diverse population of students. The graduate course will not be a MOOC but will be available for students anywhere to take online on a degree or non-degree basis. The involved universities have significant expertise and infrastructure for online course development and have online degree programs in related areas such as agribusiness management (Penn State), agricultural and extension education (Ohio State), agricultural and life sciences (Virginia Tech), community and economic development (Penn State), environmental management (Maryland), plant health management (Ohio State), and urban and regional planning (Virginia Tech). We will recruit undergraduate and graduate students for these courses through diverse sources including but not limited to multicultural affairs offices at the four land-grant universities on this proposal, leveraging professional networks of participating faculty members, and student organizations.

Consistent with the transdisciplinary nature of the proposed project, these courses will promote collaborative knowledge creation across disciplines and empower students to devise new solutions for agricultural sustainability in urbanized landscapes. The development process for each course will be facilitated by Co-PI Kumar Chaudhary and will consist of four phases: planning, content and methods, pilot testing and implementation, and evaluation (Hunkins and Ornstein, 2016). The planning phase will entail needs assessments to identify desired learning outcomes. The content and methods phase will develop course content and educational activities based on experiential learning principles (Kolb, 2015). The pilot testing and implementation phase will involve testing each course in at least one of the four universities, making revisions as needed, and then obtaining approvals to offer the course on a regular basis. The evaluation phase will assess four types of performance indicators for each course: enrollments, student grades, student ratings of instruction, and student learning outcomes.